---
layout: page
permalink: /sources/s9522719
---

# 1901 CUMMING, DONALD - 1901 Census 047/2/18

Field | Detail
---:|:---
Publication | 
Originator / Author | 
Date | 
Responsible Agency | National Records of Scotland
Filed by Entry | 
References | 1901 C 047/2/18

## Text

> Civil Parish of Dornoch
>
> Parish Ward of Dornoch East
>
> School Board District of Dornoch
>
> Village of Embo
>
> <br/>
>
> No. of schedule: 88
>
> Road, street, etc. And No. or name of house: 9 Fifth Back Street
>
> House Inhabited: Yes
>
> Rooms with windows: 3
>
> <br/>
>
> * Name; Relationship to head; married or single; age; occupation; employee/own account; born; languages: Donald Cumming; Head; Married; 40; Fisherman; own account; Sutherland, Dornoch; Gaelic & English
>
> * Name; Relationship to head; married or single; age; occupation; employee/own account; born; languages: Annie Cumming; Wife; Married; 35; -; -; Sutherland, Dornoch; Gaelic & English
>
> * Name; Relationship to head; married or single; age; occupation; employee/own account; born; languages: Bella Cumming; Daughter; Single; 12; Scholar; -; Sutherland, Kildonan; Gaelic & English
>
> * Name; Relationship to head; married or single; age; occupation; employee/own account; born; languages: Alexina Cumming; Daughter; Single; 10; Scholar; -; Sutherland, Dornoch; Gaelic & English
>
> * Name; Relationship to head; married or single; age; occupation; employee/own account; born; languages: Jessie Ann Cumming; Daughter; Single; 8; Scholar; -; Sutherland, Dornoch; Gaelic & English
>
> * Name; Relationship to head; married or single; age; occupation; employee/own account; born; languages: James Cumming; Son; Single; 6; Scholar; -; Sutherland, Dornoch, Gaelic & English
>
> * Name; Relationship to head; married or single; age; occupation; employee/own account; born; languages: George Davidson Cumming; Son; 2; -; -; Sutherland, Dornoch; Gaelic
>
> * Name; Relationship to head; married or single; age; occupation; employee/own account; born; languages: Mary Ann Cumming; Daughter; 8 months; -; -; Sutherland, Dornoch; -
>

## Notes

> It is likely the address is meant as Fifth or Back Street. Back Street is the fifth street in Embo. Or if you count from Back Street (being First Back Street), then Front Street is the Fifth street.
>
> <br/>
>
> Note, from [https://www.historylinksarchive.org.uk/picture/number3305.asp](https://www.historylinksarchive.org.uk/picture/number3305.asp)
>
> Hope Cottage was No 10 Front Street and there was an emply stand between it and No 9 Front Street (Mizpah Cottage) which was owned by my maternal grandparents Donald Cumming and Annie Cumming (Nee Fraser). RJ Mackay built a supply store on the empty stand and this building in now Mackays Post Office, Embo. The writing on the photo appears to be that of RJ Mackay who loved to write using a pseudo Scots dialect. 
>
> -- Comment left on 25 March 2009 at 16:21 by Kenneth Mackay now Empangeni born Embo 1939
>


## Source Referenced by

* [Alexandrina Cumming](../people/@57186713@-alexandrina-cumming-b1891-3-30-d1987-4-10.md) (30/Mar/1891 - 10/Apr/1987)
* [Donald J Cumming](../people/@20465544@-donald-j-cumming-b1861-3-22-d1940-2-28.md) (22/Mar/1861 - 28/Feb/1940)
* [George Davidson Smith Cumming](../people/@13773669@-george-davidson-smith-cumming-b1898-5-31-d1965-8.md) (31/May/1898 - Aug/1965)
* [Isabella Cumming](../people/@84684994@-isabella-cumming-b1888-7-21-d1986-2-1.md) (21/Jul/1888 - 1/Feb/1986)
* [James Cumming](../people/@492889@-james-cumming-b1894-11-7-d1975-7-2.md) (7/Nov/1894 - 2/Jul/1975)
* [Jessie Ann Cumming](../people/@66222886@-jessie-ann-cumming-b1893-1-8-d1978-10-31.md) (8/Jan/1893 - 31/Oct/1978)
* [Mary Ann Cumming](../people/@48241984@-mary-ann-cumming-b1900-7-26-d1981-10-8.md) (26/Jul/1900 - 8/Oct/1981)
* [Ann Fraser](../people/@70425788@-ann-fraser-b1865-9-18-d1946-6-20.md) (18/Sep/1865 - 20/Jun/1946)
